Subject: Cloud Engineer Boot Camp Mentor's Corner: Job Resources

Hi, there:

In my last message, I talked about ways you can stay involved and expand
on cloud engineering technologies. By consulting various websites and
attending conferences, you can continue to learn new technologies as
they become available and make important new contacts within the industry.

Many of you may not need to look for a new job because you are already
employed by an employer willing to invest in your development; that's
great! But, some of you financed this program all on your own with the
dream of starting a new career in the area of cloud engineering. This
is one of the most difficult mailings I've written because one size
does not fit all. I am in the United States and methods that may work
in the US may not work elsewhere in the world. I will give you some very
general approaches to seeking jobs and ask if you have methods that have
worked for you in the US and, especially, in other parts of the world,
please reply and let me know what those methods are. Similarly, if you
have technical cloud engineering resources that you've found helpful
to expand your knowledge of cloud engineering and make new contacts in
your part of the world, I would like to hear about those, too. I want
to share that information with all of you in a future message.

According to "What Color Is Your Parachute," by Richard Nelson Bolles,
hiring managers hire people they know or people known by people they
know. Understanding this is your key. Use something like LinkedIn
(https://www.linkedin.com/feed/) in order to find people doing the kind
of work that you want to do. Even better, if you attend a conference or
use an online resource where you can meet people doing the kinds of work
you want to do, become friends with them. Ask them about the work they
are doing. Mention the types of technologies you enjoy working with as
part of the Bootcamp and ask what else you need to learn to do this type
of work. This advice is very cultural, but generally, do not ask for a
job; usually, this puts people off, thinking this is the only reason you
are talking with them. You are trying to establish a relationship that
is both good for you and your new colleague. You may want to ask them
what companies in the area of the world you are interested in working
are doing the type of work that you seek. Investigate companies where
you would like to work. Use search engines to find out more about what
the company produces and the culture of that company. Will you fit in
the culture? If not, you may end up miserable in your job and looking
for a new one in just a few months.

All of this comes under the umbrella of "networking" (but not the
networking that most cloud engineers work with!). I make this sound easy,
but it is not necessarily easy. Many of us are introverts by nature, and
contacting new people, especially face to face, is scary. Making these
contacts is an investment; don't take this lightly. As I mentioned above,
this should be beneficial for both of you! When you see something that
might interest a contact, send them a link with a short note. If you
read something about their company, drop them a line asking about it.

At some point in time, your contacts may be made aware of a new opening
or may even be asked if they know of people who would be a good fit
for an opening at their company (or even other companies from their
contacts). This gives you the advantage of being known by someone a
hiring manager knows.

You may want to work with a recruiter, or what we often call a
"headhunter" in the US. One resource I have followed for years
is Nick Corcodilos and his online column, Ask The Headhunter
(https://www.asktheheadhunter.com/). Nick provides a free newsletter that
you may consider signing up to receive. About a month ago, Nick wrote,

What makes this good for you is that you don’t need a headhunter
(much less Indeed!). You just need to do what headhunters do: Rely on
credible referrals.

Participate in your professional community. Seek out the most skilled,
talented, respected workers--the ones others turn to for opinions,
advice and help. Hang out with them. Get to know them. Help them get to
know you. (Don’t forget to be really good at the work you do.)

Sound familiar? The above mentions the job site, Indeed
(https://www.indeed.com/), a very popular job site in the US. You may
have similar job sites in your country. Again, the ideal method is to
research companies you wish to work for. Sometimes new positions are
created for you that don't exist in any online job site!

As I mentioned at the beginning of this message, my approaches in the US
may not help you in Europe, Asia, Africa, South America, or Oceania (or
even other parts of North America)! I would like to hear about the methods
and resources you use in your part of the world. I sincerely wish you good
luck with your career as you work through the Cloud Engineer Bootcamps.

Remember, never stop learning!
