Subject: What's after graduating the (Advanced) Cloud Engineer Boot Camp?

Hi, there:

After you put in all the hard work to complete courses and pass exams,
you may ask yourself, "What's next?" This is a very good question. There
is so much more you can do to remain involved with cloud technology, and
just like most technology, it will continue to change as time goes on. To
stay up to date and well informed, I suggest you become involved in some
of the organizations working with cloud technologies. This certainly
involves reading, but you may also want to attend in-person or online
conferences in order to meet people who are working in the areas that
interest you most.

Another option is to become involved with open-source projects. You don't
have to be a programmer to contribute to open source! Projects always
need people to write documentation. Documents need to be proofread and
the instructions followed to ensure they are accurate. Testing or quality
assurance (QA) is very welcomed by open source projects. I encourage
all of you to participate in the open source community if you can.

What resources for cloud engineering are out there? In your online
course materials, you may have already encountered some. My list is not
a complete list, but a good start for you.

You'll find a wealth of information and ways to continue your
involvement with cloud technologies at the Linux Foundation
(http://www.linuxfoundation.org/).

Cloud Native Computing Foundation (http://www.cncf.io/) hosts critical
components of the global technology infrastructure and is part of The
Linux Foundation.

The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)
(http://www.nist.gov/itl/cloud) is a U.S. government agency that focuses
on emerging standards. This organization has done a considerable amount
of work defining and providing good information on cloud computing. You
may have similar agencies in your own country.

OASIS (http://www.oasis-open.org/), the Organization for the Advancement
of Structured Information Standards, is a global consortium focused on
the creation and adoption of standards for electronic business.

The Cloud Standards Customer Council (CSCC)
(http://www.cloud-council.org./) is a combination of vendor and
large corporate customers. It was established to focus on cloud best
practices. It is operated by the Object Management Group (OMG).

The Open Group (https://www.opengroup.org/) is a global consortium that
enables the achievement of business objectives through IT standards. The
group has a cloud working group and has lots of good source material
available.

The Open Cloud Computing Interface (OCCI) (http://occi-wg.org/), is made
up of a set of open community-led specifications delivered through the
Open Grid Forum.

OpenStack (http://openstack.org/) is an open-source platform originated
by Rackspace and NASA for building both public and private clouds.

The Cloud Security Alliance (CSA) (http://cloudsecurityalliance.org/)
was established to promote the use of best practices for providing and
ensuring security within cloud computing and to educate people about
the uses of cloud computing to help secure all other forms of computing.

The Storage Networking Industry Association (SNIA) (http://www.snia.org/)
is a trade organization focused on the networked storage industry. The
cloud storage initiative focuses on the need for cloud storage standards.

If you are interested in DevOps, IT Revolution (http://itrevolution.com/)
is a good resource for articles and conferences.

Do you have other resources that you use to further your cloud engineering
education and continue to be involved in the cloud community? I would
love to hear of resources from you, especially if you have organizations
local to your country or continent.

Remember, just because you get through several courses and pass exams
does not mean that your journey is over. Things continue to change and
evolve, and you will want to remain a part of it, so leverage these and
other resources in your career. Remember, never stop learning!
